so without further ado I'm going to
introduce Jim Anders from heading thank
you good morning everyone when I was
asked to speak at the conference here my
first inclination was to do lay you know
what's new from a product point of view
in quicktime VR but realizing I was
going to have an audience full of
developers I wanted to change gears a
little bit and talk about what's new and
the way of opportunities for development
and to give you a sense of what the
market is like and because it's a vital
market and it's one that's continuing to
grow so to start out with what's new
with VR well this is one thing that was
new I was really glad to see that Apple
on the the morning of the introduction
of the g5 chose to once again use
QuickTime VR to show the inner workings
of the new g5 and for those of you might
not be familiar with object movies which
is this is a quick time of your object
movie as you may or may not know
quicktime VR supports both
object-oriented images as well as
panoramic images and usually you can
just simply do a simple rotation of an
object and this one they're doing some
more interesting animation effects you
can see the cover coming off and zooming
in and out to see the early all the neat
details of the of the unit so that's
really cool what we're going to be
taught what I'm going to be talking
about this morning is essentially give
you a quick overview of QuickTime vr Kai
Dan our company has been involved right
from the very beginning of QuickTime you
are actually we got started making
accessory products for the Apple quick
take camera and then shortly after the
Apple Creek take camera was introduced
apple announced quicktime VR so we've
been involved right from the very
beginning and I'm kind of give you a
sense of a little bit of the history a
sense of where are we at currently in
the
in the technology what the current and
potential market is I try to give you
some sense of the best I can and what
opportunities are that I think are for
third-party development and and at the
very end after carries talk we'll have a
Q&A session so where have we been when
quick times vr was introduced he's 78
years ago Apple had a product called the
quicktime VR authoring tool suite for
those you remember npw it was a npw base
you actually typed you know stitch this
movie in a command-line interface there
was a dongle it was fairly expensive and
for those who went and took the the
training class at Apple the predominant
camera the preferred camera was a
35-millimeter camera with film and we
actually shot film they had photo cds
returned and that's how you did it and
image quality was as you might expect
fairly nice with a photo CD but arat as
i was mentioning at that same time Apple
introduced the quick take camera and we
had making credit card anak close-up
lenses and wide angle lenses so we
thought it would be really cool to be
able to develop a tripod head for that
Apple camera and at the time a lot of
people were saying that 35 millimeters
the way to go but you managed to get
some really kind of nifty shots and it
was clear to us back then that digital
is going to be the way these images were
going to a shot lets you so that kind of
kicked it off for us and in fact for the
industry things just really started to
take off shortly thereafter Apple did
kind of the next generation of tools be
quick time they are offering studio
which still is available today and and
actually there's probably no better
stitcher for stealing cylindrical
panoramas than that product today there
was another startup company back then
called Panem a shin they made a product
called node stir and widget Iser and
today you can see the
accessories of those products the
descendants of those products in the VR
toolbox company product line there's
also a company called live pictures and
made a product called photo visto and
that still is available today under a
new company name called IC media it was
also another startup company called on
the view and they're known today as I
pics new digital cameras really started
to take off Apple Rev their camera line
Kodak came out with digital cameras and
that was really the beginning of the
emergence of digital cameras things
really went crazy at that time tripod
heads which are used to actually create
back then and still today the panoramic
images were close to a thousand dollars
and when we got involved we decided to
kind of democratize the market and we
introduced a tripod head called the Kiwi
for a hundred dollars and simple things
went nuts schools kids started to use
this technology it was just really
became a vibrant market in the past few
years we've just seen an explosion of
applications as i mentioned animation
those products are now being sold and
continually be updated through VR
toolbox there's a product called reels
is stitcher that does multirow panoramas
where you can create very high-rez
panoramas offering studio is still
around but really the story of VR has
been what the third parties have done
with it and for those of you who are
developers out there I mean that's your
challenge I mean there's there is a lot
of things going on a lot of companies
out there creating really great products
and doing really interesting things with
VR both in the object and the panoramic
realms so today
we have a stable mature environment to
which to build applications on that
Apple has provided you know apples kind
of in an interesting situation they
develop the enabling technology and then
many times they also develop the the
consumer applications and QuickTime
Bureau authoring studio hasn't been
updated in a long time and a lot of our
customers and people who are actually
buying products you know they clearly
bemoan the fact that it hasn't been
updated well the good news for
developers is that this has been a
fertile ground for third-party
development and that's the good news
apps isn't kind of in a no-win situation
but it's really a good news for the
development community quicktime VR as a
format is the most popular immersive
imaging format on the web and we've cut
an we've tried to quantify that by doing
fairly exhaustive Google searches and
actually canvassing and looking at what
formats out there on the web and it's
still today it's true that there are no
other formats that are more popular out
there in the other than quicktime vr
that's because they're both objects and
panoramas and a lot of the other
competing file formats or perhaps
strictly limited to panorama and things
like that quicktime you are also gives
you a very rich playback environment
because you have the ability to do all
the other kind of neat quicktime things
and incorporate that into your movies
things like sound and the recent
announcements in QuickTime regarding
sound is going to be very interesting
for for developers as far as surrounding
sound and so you know 3d sound or things
like that I also think QuickTime vr
gives you the best playback experience
there are some java viewers out there
that display panoramas and objects but
generally they're there to provide a
pretty poor experience you know the
cursor doesn't continue to activate as
you move off the window as it does with
in the QuickTime environment and its
really a know that the the Java players
are kind of annoying and of course with
OS 10 and quartz extreme since we're
dealing with photographic images and
graphic intensive
content is there's no better platform to
develop than on the mac so things are
good right now and things are good I can
I can say they're good but yeah Jim why
don't you tell me how and show me how
good they are well there are a number of
really good success stories out there
that one can look at to see how good
things are we have you can't find a
automotive website that doesn't use
QuickTime VR to show off the interior of
a new car or the exterior of a new car
motion pictures obviously Apple hasn't
had a great deal of success with movie
trailers well we're now starting to see
that in addition to movie trailers the
movie studios are doing vr content of
the set and the matrix is an example
harry potter and in addition educational
industrial applications is just a
tremendous use and i'll show you briefly
here on the demo machine some other
examples of VR content if we can switch
over to the demo machine sorry we had to
do this keynote doesn't play quicktime
VR and there's another development
opportunity actually okay this is a
interior of a new audi a8 i believe and
this is a vr movie that was shot by Tim
Petros his company's gyro VR and it's a
QuickTime vr cubic so we can look all
the way up out through the sunroof and
down at the dash we can zoom in the as I
said just that every automotive company
has has this kind of content on their
site and they've done a lot of studies
and tests and QuickTime does it for them
they're very happy with quicktime
they've also found out that if you can
want to be able to zoom in to see enough
detail on the dash
that was really important in all their
testing that they did so that you have
enough detail so it's like sitting in
the in the driver's seat that was a
panorama in addition to panoramas of
course quicktime VR supports objects so
you can do neat things like instead of
just a flat rotation well let's show the
car off and zoom in and zoom out as we
move around and the fact that its
interactive the fact that you're in
control the end users in control as
opposed to just a movie makes all the
difference in the world one of the other
areas of success has been in as I said
motion picture in the media content Tim
Petros who did the oddities outie of
automotive interiors and stuff it has
also been doing a lot of work with
Warner Brothers they create models of
all their intellectual property like
Bugs Bunny and in order to make sure
that licensing is upheld and all the
people who have licensed Bugs Bunny to
make Bugs Bunny keychains and Bugs Bunny
dolls in order to make sure that this
it's been reproduced faithfully they
make models well it's a lot easier to
distribute a 3d virtual model than it is
a real model to all the licensees so
here's an example of a multirow object
movie and I can turn around and look at
all different sides of the of the object
and that's really neat
another one Tweety
lenten industrial and scientific this is
a shot that was done with a pano scan
camera canoscan camera is a very high
resolution digital scanning panoramic
camera and what you're looking at here
is the interior of the space shuttle and
here's an example where cubic vr1 more
recent additions to the file format by
Apple really shines I mean if you're out
if you're shooting a house or you're
shooting on an exterior seen somewhere
generally it's not that important to be
able to look straight up but when you
have something happening on every side
as in this interior shot you can see
that that's really important actually
this curve being here that you see on
the interior that is actually a shoot
that's used for when the astronauts have
to bail out of the shuttle there's a
strap that they hook up on that curve
rod and then they jump out the door
which is that round thing right here
yeah and actually see the text and this
is a relatively low it is like a medium
res file I think this is only two Meg's
I have a higher res version that you can
actually read every piece of writing
really crisp just amazing obviously NASA
loves this kind of technology this isn't
really industrial or educational but I
just liked the panorama this is Las
Vegas and it's another example of a
cubic image that was shot with stitcher
and a chi Dan multirow head just a
really stunning image although I suspect
the moon was put in afterwards
okay we'll go back to the slides now so
market wise I'm trying to try to give
you an idea of what is really the
potential for the market in the eight
years at Chi dan has been around we've
sold tens of thousands of tripod heads
and for a good part of that time I would
say for the first five years those have
been sold to the early adopters these
are the guys that were you know read
about quicktime VR found out of a
thought it was really cool people like
Dennis is going to be giving the talk
later on after Terry's in my talk but
people that have really kind of blaze
the trail and at Qaeda and we kind of
look at this kind of pyramid effect
where for the first part of our
existence we've been kind of selling at
that kind of peak of the pyramid be you
know the people have been really blazing
the trail but as time has been going on
we've been coming further down the
pyramid into a larger wider user base
kids grade school kids create creating
object movies of bugs you know they
weren't the first people who bought our
products certainly the other thing
that's really helped us is the digital
camera market is just going nuts the the
market forecast and I've taken several
of them and kind of combine them a
little bit here they're all before even
the most pessimistic form forecasts are
looking at a more than a 10 billion
dollar market by 2007 it's huge and film
is going to go away and it's just a
matter of when and number of actual
cameras by then is you know 51 million
cameras it's just really incredible
what's happening in the digital camera
world and since a lot of the immersive
imaging and QuickTime of your content is
constructed by multiple images the
ability to have and capture these
multiple images with digital of course
is a lot of use of images with film
the other dynamic in the industry that's
happening is the photographers out there
that professional and commercial
photographers out there there there
they've been struggling and they were
looking for new and way different ways
of getting their content over and you
know wedding photographers you know we
bit wedding photographers who are
looking at new ways of capturing
weddings you know with immersive imaging
products photographers you saw the g5 in
the very beginning you know in the old
days the product photographer would
shoot that g5 and they would have a
press kit and all these glossy
photographs would be in the in that in
the press kit now you hardly see that
anymore because people are using
immersive imaging to actually show their
products off and in some ways you know
it's Cayenne we think the object market
has a probably a much bigger potential
than the panoramic market just because
there's so many more products and
objects and ebay things that people of
objects of interest that people want to
photograph the other thing that has
changed is that the applications have
changed significantly from the days of
mtw and typing in commands you know
there are dozens of easy-to-use
click-and-drag applications to create
this kind of content and that's really
made a big difference they said Apple
created this enabling technology and now
it's up to third-party developers to
really make it happen and I've tried to
put my thoughts together as far as what
I think are some of the low-hanging
fruit as it were for what the
development opportunities would be
there's a lot of them and I tried just
to pick a few of the things that are
neat either needed in the marketplace or
conditions that exist in the marketplace
that really make have made the
opportunity come to life and one of the
biggest changes has been the
availability of bandwidth when we
started with panoramic images and object
images there was a big push to get
objects like less than 200 k because
people had dial-up modems you know and
you know the 9600 baud connection the
other is it's tough to bring in the two
or three megabytes object movie well
that's obviously not the case any
more so for example the automotive
companies they have no problem putting a
2 Meg object movie or a very high res
detailed panoramic image up on the site
and people want that detail they want
they want to be able to zoom in and read
the gauges on the dash they want to be
able to see the texture of the floss or
the details or the inside of the new g5
object movies originally object movies
were just flat spinning objects that
would move you know on one row flat
spinning objects we multirow object
movies like the Bugs Bunny and the
Tweety that I showed where you can move
it in all directions long time that I
wasn't too that wasn't done because the
file sizes were every new row that you
added to the image would essentially
double the double the size of the image
or triple the size of the image for each
additional row multi-row object movies
are coming back into vogue people
micholi tried to use them and they were
too big and then they throttled back to
single row we're seeing more and more
multireal object ribs being sold more
and more of that kind of content being
distributed on the web so undergoing a
real revival so there's a real
opportunity for content providers to be
able to provide this kind of multirow
object movies stereo i know dennis is
going to be showing some stereo example
later on but stereo is something that's
really never taken off and become
commonplace it's a shame because you can
get some amazing imagery with some
stereo stereo effects either with
panoramas as Dennis will be showing or
with objects and in the case of object
movies you get stereo for free a quick
time of your object movie is essentially
an array of matrix of images taking
around and up and down and in order to
get the stereo effect all you have to do
is display any given image in that
matrix and the adjacent image which is
taken at a slightly different
perspective rotated and if you display
both of those images
either with shutter glasses or with the
anaglyph red blue type glasses you get
the stereo effect and it's quite amazing
so it's free it's all it's already there
all it needs to be done if someone has
to do and packaged and put together some
meat to meat tools to easily create them
and display them staying with panoramic
we had made a Cayenne had made a stereo
imaging tripod head where you could take
two shots at once and people didn't
really do all that well in the
marketplace but I think with the
appropriate playback stuff there'd be
some really nice revival for that real
estate you know real estate virtual
tours are one example of VR but to be
able to see this house that you're
looking to buy in stereo could be really
quite compelling cubix quicktime VOR
cubics several years ago Apple added
that capability so that you could look
up and down and although all the way
around and there's a lot of
opportunities to make that image process
of gathering those images are easy and
convenient one of the products that cut
an that we've had a great deal of
success with is our one shot product
where in one shot you can capture a full
360-degree panorama it does not yet
handle the full view cubics but we're
working on and there's some ideas that
we have and there's a lesson learned
there is that if you can make the
capture part of it easy it makes the
whole process easier along the way and
there's a whole range of new and
innovative optical techniques and things
like that that would just stimulate that
whole process so there's some good
opportunities there true 3d a QuickTime
VR whether it's objects or panoramas is
essentially flat images projected in a
new way but you can take those flat
images and actually do some interesting
things with them for example if we were
to shoot several panoramas in this room
you can take the similar points analyzed
at different locations and construct 3d
models true 3d models that you
then navigate and move around same with
objects you could capture an object
movie like bugs or Tweety and instead of
just being essentially a digital flip
book of images simulating 3d you could
actually take that data the photographic
data and create a 3d model and then use
those photographs to texture map it
there's another example of things that
you can that can be done and we
certainly have the computing power to
pull that off today scripting scripting
and authoring applescript studio in the
latest mac Tech was sort of Tim Monroe
did a great little article and how easy
and cool apple scripts to do would be to
use and there's really no convenient
easy ways and tools out there to do that
but it certainly could be done there are
live stage pro and another application
called revolution they have support for
QuickTime VR and you can generate some
compelling content with those tools and
that's more on the content creation side
ninjas for the software development side
one of the areas that hasn't been
explored all that much is high dynamic
range imaging you're not familiar with
this this is a technique where you take
multiple exposures of theme at different
photographic exposures and then
intelligently combine them to create a
very dramatic image which if I were to
take a panorama here i have a huge
dynamic range of at the bright lights
and I've got the darkroom but if I took
a series of photographs at all the
possible different exposure ranges I
would see you guys clearly in the
audience the bright lights and up here
would being clear and then you combine
that and it just creates amazing images
there's some examples of that out there
HDR shop and photomatix or two examples
of some software that do that on
conventional images we could certainly
do it on objects in town of rama's as
well and it could be some possibilities
with the pics like codec to be able to
pull that off as well codex is another
really ripe example for innovation
it's really not clear today what codecs
are optimized for VR and it's just kind
of a general confusion out there about
codecs and what could I could really
work well and properly in the VR
environment so there's some ripe areas
there so the most part objects are
created by putting an object on a
turntable and spinning it like a car or
something like that or something bugs &
Tweety for example but there's some
objects that you just can't put on a on
a on a rotating turntable like a statue
in a park for example you just it's
there and you you have to walk around
the object in order to capture it there
are today no really easy-to-use tools
that allow you to walk around a house or
a battleship or a statue in the park
that allow you to create an object would
be easily and that's a if you're looking
for to get in the software business and
create a killer app and is there's a
great example just be building to
animate objects as well as you saw with
the the g5 example how the door opened
and and the parts flew apart there's no
good tools to be able to do that well
either it's sold kind of hand pane
painstakingly done by hand and pulled
out and photoshopped and things like
that some other examples if we move back
over to the demo machine
objects I mentioned briefly ebay if
anyone I'm sure everyone has seen eBay
or blood off ebay but today you take
multiple pictures of your object to make
sure that you know the person buying it
can see that there's nothing you know
broken on it or going on with it but why
not use object movies we were tight and
we're developing a new piece of object
software to make object capture really
easy it wasn't ready for be shown here
but that's one area where we're going to
try to go after is making it accessible
for the common ebay user to create this
kind of content and to put this up on
their ebay page as opposed to five or
six images that show the show the object
another example really makes a
difference when you have that ability to
animate it and do things now in this
case it's a it's an object movies but
we're not spinning the object around
we're just kind of like the g5 example
we're just articulating the object to
show how it works that's another common
way of showing this kind of technology
there's several weeks ago I came across
a technical paper where they were using
a small little sprites that would travel
over the surface of a 3d object in order
to show how how the object look to
better convey how the object look this
happens to be a tooth and they're
actually as they're moving it along
their varying the size of the little
sprites that move across the surface of
the object but for mathematical
visualization a mathematic of these kind
of complex 3d mathematically described
surfaces there's a whole kind of open
the possibilities there for using
QuickTime VR to describe these kind of
complex surfaces here again with OpenGL
and and the kind of connection between
3d and quicktime gr there's a another
great opportunity so that concludes my
part of the talk next up will be Terry
brownie and he'll kind of get in more of
the specifics about some of the new
products and things that are available
out there today and in the VR space and
i guess some final closing its assuming
most of your developers if you're
interested in wanting to learn more
about some of the possibilities of
developing VR applications just see me
after the after the session I'll be glad
to chat with you and and tell you tell
you more thank you
[Applause]
thank you Jim okay thanks this is a
pretty decent turnout I appreciate
everybody coming in this afternoon or
this morning rather I should know this
morning because I'm not a morning person
staying with a friend and Nob Hill and
about four in the morning all the sudden
they're doing some kind of construction
on the cable lines on the fifth street
so forgive me if I'm not going to awake
bully so I'm going to do today is
actually show you as Jim mentioned both
some hardware and some software kind of
what's new and certainly there's a
there's a fair amount of development
going on which is very encouraging and
some of the stuff here today is
brand-new and actually some of its so
new that it's not even here yet so how
many of you first of all went to the
Michael shaft interactive quicktime
presentation ish relay a few of you okay
good well what I'm going to do then is
just kind of show a brief outline of
stuff i'm going to show and then just
jump right into it because i do have
quite a few things to kind of get
through here ok software i'll be
hopefully looking at the live stage pro
for dot1x after third this morning vr
works 2.5 which is in beta zoom of fire
vr version 2 which is recently announced
and released and photo warp 201 and just
quickly that is I put some prices up for
use well live stage this release more
point 0 was kind of a revamping of the
whole interface of the software and then
for dot one they call it the VR release
the folks that totally hip we're really
you know encouraging trying to get input
from the VR community they recognize the
potential there and so you'll be
surprised those of you haven't seen yet
there's just tons of quick cambiar
functionality now built into live stage
and done so in a way that makes it quite
easy for anyone to use even if you don't
know how to do any kind of Q scripting
so look at that
like I said VR works 2.5 is in beta
they're showing it downstairs as well in
the exhibit booth so I recommend you go
down there but I'll also get into it
just briefly appear and that's a
QuickTime VR that's a complete offering
package Jim mention quicktime VR
authoring studio from Apple which you
know was recently or was originally
rather released back in like nineteen
ninety seven or so was kind of at the
time the only complete authoring package
via our toolbox came along and they
released vr works which is have similar
capability and now i'm pleased to say
they're revving that the pro is can and
adding some features and functions as
well and then zoom a fire for those who
haven't seen as a nice way to do very
high resolution image streaming and
addition initially they started with
just images but they've incorporated VR
capability and then photo warp is
actually software which is bundled with
an optic that tied an cells it's a
one-shot optic and i'll be showing
actually a similar product from another
company that was just released today so
hardware actually that's the optic
graduate firing through the company's 0
to 360 and they have a panoramic optic
out someone shot solution manfrotto
bogen has a new cubic flash spherical
head that is just come out fact it was
just shipped from Italy to me yesterday
and and then that's roundshot VR drive
unfortunately is not here yet and
something tells me it's probably going
to arrive this afternoon so what I would
like to do probably is maybe it's a
quick time feedback session i'll kind of
be in the corner afterwards so that if
it does actually arrive from Switzerland
and anybody's interested in seeing it
I'll have it there you can just come
over and I'll show it to you but it's
just an automatic rotating platform like
bikes and around so I have done and then
hopefully if there's time Dennis diva is
going to show at a customized panel head
that he had built for him specifically
for a project he doing in some Sonia
so let's jump over here
I know right and this is well I'll leave
this all up here to afterwards so you
guys come up and actually get your hands
on it and see what it's all about but
this is the new unit frontman Fratto it
ships like this so it's nice kind of a
compact and folds up and when you go to
use it you unscrew this knob here and
some of the feedback that I and got
heightened was awful giving them if they
need to put a little retainer clip on
this so you don't leave this important
piece but then this is actually just
going to fold up like that and then this
gets returned back in this position
there and then kind of the second part
of the unit is this rotator base here
and what this is it's an index base that
you can use with the head basically
allowing you then to have these click
stop that are adjustable you pull up
this tab and you have essentially from
five degree increments to 90 degrees so
anywhere from say four shots six shots 8
10 12 15 18 24 36 or seventy two shots
that's a nice solid piece you know it
definitely clicks and stops at each
increment so you can welcome to come up
and look at that afterwards just show
you them quickly and this is called the
303 sth
how many of you have attempted to shoot
a multi row panorama before a few of you
okay so as you know it's not it's not
quite easy just yet but with products
like this and also Chi down offers the
multi-role head as well it's starting to
get a lot better actually put this down
here where I can see it excuse me one
second
no I love this
ok
well if I can't get this ulong here I
think I have the wrong plate on here the
next thing about this head actually I
don't need the camel to show it to you
but for basically what it allows you to
do is you need to set the nodal point
this way so basically it moves it's
going to move the camera and three
different axing so he put the camera on
here and you can align them they don't
know no point in this direction and then
likewise for shooting another different
tilt ranges and then in this case yeah
you're going to be able to move in this
direction too okay so I'll get that
camera up there maybe we can even shoot
a pen around with the end with dinner so
that gives you kind of a sense of how
that works okay let's jump in then jump
ahead to software and I'll get back to
the other hardware as well let's start
resume a fire okay Zuma fire basically
you don't need any server software so
you know it all happens on the client
side and the actual application is
either a droplet that you use which i'm
going to use today or it also because
it's available as a photoshop plugin but
in this case I have a bunch of images
it's just actually kind of a subset of
images I shot of a sculpture
uncompressed these are all like 9 mag
images I think they're from the coolpix
9 95 or something so you know you
wouldn't want to necessarily do a big
object movie with 9 mag images you know
up 36 images whatever because it would
just be huge I'm just going to grab all
those and X and then just drop it on the
droplet
open up for me and then you'll see here
the hubby's cab image object animation
slideshow panorama it knew that I had
dragged more than one image so it's
assumed that I want to do an object
which is the case so then you're just
going to choose where the destination is
go there okay
okay then you can choose the you know
the display width and height the
background color the zoom compression
you can add copyright information set
the initial view and then you can tell
it which kind of files you want to
generate basically what they recommend
is kind of doing like an auto detect and
checking all these and that's definitely
going to be a fail safe thing to do
because it'll generate every file that
you need and then you just put them up
on the server and then the software
smart enough to know whether or not the
the client has either de zoom applied
plug in a quicktime plugin or it's going
to use activex or java there's all kinds
of different ways that can do it it's
it's pretty it's pretty nice actually
and it is a quicktime component let me
just emphasize that so you can just
generate to QuickTime movie and then as
far as part of the third party download
component system we're going to do that
you can watch it do its thing and
basically what it's doing is it's
picking each of those images and it's
piling them up and there's some
technical name for it's like smart hair
metal preferred image serving or
something like that but it's going to
take those images and just pretty much
died some in the tiles men upon playback
it's only going to serve that you know
the specific area that you need to see
it anytime so the next thing about it's
in is you're not having to download a
big movie because maybe someones only
going to look at one view or when they
go to zoom in you don't need to zoom in
all the other views that aren't in being
seen at that time so it's done okay so
look at that
open that in quicktime player okay so
there's my movie and
so you can see then it's showing me kind
of the lower res version now and then as
I turn it it's going to look like it's
getting blurry because it's pulling in
those new tiles now so it's only going
to refresh once you get to the new the
image data that's not there but then the
great thing of course is as you zoom in
it's just going to serve that image data
that you need and you can get some
really nice detail this way and so let
me go back and look at that file that
movies to reference which only 8k okay
this PFF file right here that's the
image data basically and that's only 1.6
meg so it took each of those seven
images that were eight Meg's apiece on
compressed and the image data is now
been compressed only 1.6 Meg's so this
file sits on the server and this little
movie just calls the data as it's needed
so that is Zuma fire highly recommended
ok so next then we're going to look at
the zero to 360 optic so this is a
one-shot object as i mentioned available
from 0 to 360 dot-com and there's a few
of these on the market now but as you'll
see it just screws onto a digital camera
like that and then it captures 350
degrees in one shot so the nice thing
about this is besides not having to do
any stitching as you can freeze motion
you know you can people walking in the
room or whatever you can capture motions
because that you know assuming that the
light is allows you to you can shoot at
a high enough of sugar speed to catch
motion it's not the there are some
disadvantages and advantages that the
disadvantage is being that you know all
of that data 360 degrees is going to be
captured on one frame so the resolution
is going to be nearly that of shooting
multiple images and stitching them
together so this is more kind of a web
friendly low resolution way to get a
very fast way on my tattoo you know if
it gets panorama but if you're looking
to do you know nice high quality
panorama that you can print or something
then you want to do more traditional
route of stitching people you guys could
come to look at this as well afterwards
so what we'll do then is look at an
image that was taken with this now
they're their software them that they
have they have apparently an application
that don't windows only right now but
they do have a photoshop action for OS
10 that's kind of them so we'll pick
this is the image here open it in
Photoshop
okay so there's the image to go to my
action here called the zero to 60
unwrapped ER I'm just going to hit play
and it's going to throw up these
messages for me please crops you just
mere and then press play again when
you're finished okay i'm going to choose
a crop tool and almost kind of you know
quickly do this here about like that
just that's a little bit okay let me say
crop ok and I'm going to hit play again
like it told me to do that's going to
say you know this step you can change
the image the canvas side basically if
you wanted to resize it or you can just
continue so we're going to continue when
I do that to the size you can
automatically pull up the polar
coordinate filter to do the remapping
okay image size okay and then now it's
going to say now crop just to the image
and then press play again let me crop
roughly there
and hit play again and you're done and
just level sharpness or whatever you can
just brighten this up a bit so you can
see it ok so then from there you just
save it and then open it in any other
applications you actually export the VR
they don't export the VR from the
photoshop action we do is we put it here
and warped
just keep them excellent for now okay
that's saved there so actually what
we're going to do is we're going to kind
of cheat we're going to look at that now
and the other application that we're
going to talk about today which is the
artworks okay how many of you use VR
works in the past either version 1 or
version 2 okay a few of you it's a
really nice application this is kind of
a tabbed set up a pyridyl and allows you
to stitch multiple images allows you to
bring in existing panorama is like the
one we just did which is what I'm going
to do it does hotspots multi-node scenes
and such so basically what they're doing
now is they have read this for oh it's
10 this is a beta release and so there's
still they still have some things they'd
like to do some of which I mean they're
going to redo the buttons and icons to
be all you know 3d and conform to the
Aqua although the modal dialogues are
going to be sheet windows but one of the
things that summon on programs point of
view is they're going to try to make
this this pain a little bit smarter
which is the setup in other words you
should be able to just drag your images
on there and it's going to be kind of an
auto configuration right now you have to
you know determine the what kind of
image it is how many of them there are
you know what size they are that kind of
thing but hopefully when this is
actually released you'll just be able to
drag your images in there and the
software will figure all that out for
you so you can kind of skipped that step
what I'm going to do then actually just
import a single panorama
okay and next let's just drag and drop
it the one that we just did from that
other app which we call well thank you
I'm just going to drag that there can
ask me if I want to rotate it I happen
to know that you know I don't need to
rotate that I'm sorry oriented correctly
and then it's going to bring it in
fourth so you can kind of look in there
the next thing is they've always from
the beginning actually although it's
very seldom used by a lot of people but
you can actually have access to filters
all the QuickTime filters special
effects you know if you wanted to add if
you want equal in to use QuickTime to do
blurring sharpening that kind of stuff
you can do that all from within here
they have a built-in image editor so you
can click here bring it up and do some
kind of basic editing but also what's
going to be new in this version is the
offer the option to you know say I'd
rather use Photoshop basically and then
when you click that button it's going to
load the image into Photoshop for you
we'll jump with him the hot spot and you
basically choose a tool outline were you
when your hot spot to be tell it what
kind of hot spot it is you know a link
or URL whatever you want to be it's
called a swinging and then another nice
thing that they've added in this feature
in this version is the ability to set
all this information and then basically
choose a preset so that you can always
just go back in just drop down and
choose a kind of a template for all of
you the other ones so we're just going
to look at this quickly oh and you can
do within the software now you can do
fast start and web fast track previews
so if somebody same you know you usually
get to grid but you can also add so you
can bring in a low resolution preview
for the ER okay so those are they are
there you can come up here let me make
it a little bit bigger pan around there
was our hotspot see the cursor change
basically an add annotations and stuff
like you know fit be set the initial
view if you want open up on that flower
you know you can go over here and set
that to be the initial view and then
export so what I'm going to do export
that here garden movie oh and the other
nice thing so this is a project file
right now I'm going to close this
project and all rap i forgot to say the
right well so the what they've done now
is i can go back in vr works and they
have a sniff you little thing called
recomposed project for moving so those
of you who have been using VR you'll see
kind of the benefit to this now I can
take the movie that was just generated
open it and it's going to recreate the
project so now I can go back in there
and I can re-edit it there's my hostage
you know it's pulled the source
basically back out with the hot spots
and tack and everything now I don't have
to worry about saving all those project
files anymore you can just recompose
them from the finalized movie that's a
very powerful feature so we don't need
that ok so the photo warp
so photo warp then is software aspect to
the camera from I see 360 in KY dan
called the I 360 PR and it's a similar
unit to this like I say there's about
four or five companies doing similar
things hi dan is here downstairs if you
want to go down and take a look at your
optic in their software but this is a
very nice software you know that a lot
of time and soft and put in to doing it
so first of all I could just have an
image actually a fairly old image coming
from one of their optics so I can just
drag in there
ah
more time
Oh doesn't like aliases okay
yeah it should be here there it is yeah
okay I'll tell Michael in devon ke
kisses so it recognizes then that if
this is one of its own images a 360 1 BR
image you can also import a cylindrical
or spherical image then you can under
format you have picked NVR it will also
spit out java in this version right and
yeah PT viewer you know there's several
other formats that they'll spit out as
well so now here we again choose the
compression choose a view you know tell
it what size again you can also generate
the fast start preview here or you can
choose a pull in a different image there
okay so we've been there you can set a
target size if you thought well I'd like
to have to keep the move around you know
if you hit RK or whatever and let's just
do this click on the warp
and then it's going to unwrap that movie
fourth and then it's from there down
there for so we can see it so then the
other mexico de i want to show you is
you can also then go back and change
this to a cylindrical image i'm not sure
if i can just drag this in or not we'll
find out italy place it on a flyer if i
bleep down first but the other image i
shot to this one yeah so then this is
actually the cylindrical image shot with
this other lens after i had gone through
the photoshop action so you can our
ahead go ahead and import a cylindrical
image as well and again go through all
those steps but i highly recommend you
go down to the chi damn booth because
there's actually a lot of nice features
there's some batch processing
capabilities and such that you know you
should really try to take a look at down
there if you are interested right now
let's jump in the live stage how many of
you are life they throwing users
currently i'll give you okay
okay well I States Pro is the quicktime
authoring application very very very
powerful and it's come a long way it was
first done and they're trying to make it
even you know despite the pro title
they're trying to also now make it a
little bit easier for people that don't
want to dive in and have to learn kind
of a scripting language and syntax and
all that stuff so it still is a very
powerful program that you know if you if
you want to get into that side of things
you certainly can but as I mentioned
with its for dot one release they really
gone out of their way to target to VR
crowd specifically and to make it much
easier because they have found like
other as have other software developers
for VR that you know a lot of the VR
producers are photographers and sure
they can use a mac and such but they're
not they are not coming from the same
background probably with a lot of people
that this particular conference are so
they wanted to kind of make it as easy
as possible so i'm going to do is that's
going to take one of those movies here's
my library i'm going to drag it over
here on the stage pops it up and it's
going to add a VR trap for me down here
yeah so the new one of the new features
in four then with the addition of these
things called fast track so in the old
days that I'd have to do is I'd have to
add a sprite track have to add a sprite
and then you know on the handlers tell
us you know onmousedown do this do that
and I have to know all that syntax but
now I can move or all I need to be
really second to say i want to add some
controls so it's going to pop this be
our editor okay and it's going to add
that track for me automatically right
here the next thing about it is that
comes with default media which is can be
changed very easily I think they give
you some other options here to basically
all you need to do is from your library
click and drag and bring it over and
then it's going to replace it on the fly
like that so let's go back to the VRE
there so here's the node we're in now
okay this is all live here and you can
change speed etc center basically but
that's all there is to having to do that
so I'm going to close that though just
for a second and just preview this just
so you can see how simple this is so
there's my movie you can see and I can
use it the traditional way or I can go
down here and use these buttons this way
and that is that image that I dragged in
just kind of without looking what it was
zooming in here ok so I mean that's
that's a huge thing for anybody that's
ever seen that would have taken 40
minutes to do prior to the version 4
because you have to do it all by hand
and do all the coding so now you can say
well you know what I also want to maybe
do a maybe a compass and a compass track
depending on the application compasses
are kind of popular you know kind of
giving you an orientation as to where
you're looking especially if you're into
jumping around notes
so again they gives you default media
which you can use or not and in fact you
can choose a linear style like that and
have a critical across like a dial or a
radio one based either on pan angle or
tilt angles to leave in the back ok and
say we want to look there I'm going to
set that as north ok so now that's going
to be north so that the arrows pointing
up at that particular view close that
now I can simply go over here drag that
around why we're building this you know
I might have a nice background image
what I'm going to do is just use their
basic background but i'll go ahead and
change it to black okay and then give
you that okay so now if you can tell
from back there but here's my indicator
and as I'm panning its panning as well
and as I face that fountain it's giving
me the direction of north so again that
would that would have taken considerable
significant amount of time to do prior
to this version and then they also do
they do you can do directional sounds
that way you can add sounds let's go
ahead though and look at the VR editor
again for a second even though they
don't do any stitching they have given
us now the capability to do hot spots
within the application so that is the
hot spot that was created previously i
can go in here and see it and i can
alter it you know like there it is there
to grab this tool I can move it around
put I where I want go back change the
settings associated to it I can use
custom cursors I can change the way it
links and I can tell it where it's
linking to you can do all that kind of
stuff so it's very powerful and then if
you if you do want to get into the key
script
type of thing this is kind of the
traditional way to do it where the
handlers are here if you know didn't we
use the fast track and then a very
another very cool feature that they
added then we change this back a little
bit back to my local library I'm going
to take my other movie I'm just going to
simply go down here i'm going to say app
end and voila now i have a multi-node
movie and not only that but the software
we're smart enough to go ahead and
automatically extend those two tracks
that it created for me okay so now i
have two nodes and the controller and
the compass are going to go ahead and be
there for both nodes i can go back to
this node hotspot this is node 1 there's
no to link to node no telling where it's
going to go all that kind of stuff so
and i can add i can create additional
hot spots here if I wanted choose the
color again just go in there and now so
using the one that was in there before
and I could create my own so very very
powerful very very easy and they're also
having a pretty unbelievable sale price
for the show so you might want to try to
hook up with those guys if you can well
so there to show let's see we did the
Zuma Phi and their 360 optics we did VR
work and again vr works and photo warp
they're both downstairs so I didn't
spend a lot of time going to then both
of them have a lot more features and
functionality than what I've shown but
since they're downstairs I'd recommend
you go down there live stage pro we did
looked at the manfrotto head Oh Dennis
then is still here yes so what we'll do
is pin now a little after ten Dennis
will take a few minutes show us a custom
head that he had made and then we'll do
some Q&A thank you
[Applause]
so this is a be our heads that we had
its custom fabricate for our project i'm
working at the National Air and Space
Museum partisan Smithsonian to file a
case study I need a mic oh okay sorry is
this good hey this week she's waving to
me it must be okay right thumbs up I got
thumbs up now wonderful so this is a
custom fabricated head we have a lot is
on our project building and shooting all
these aircraft we have 200 aircraft to
shoot and we're using Jim's standard
spherical head but we had some issues
with going into cockpit subjects it
takes 15 minutes to raise and lower the
canopy so picture you had to raise and
lower the campy for every shot you need
to do 36 so we'd be there a few days so
we had a gentleman in the audience dr.
Lewis nap and he came up with this
motorized head and unfortunately Terry
still trying to figure out how to work
with his other stuff I got it but
basically it was just mount on a tripod
we mount it inside the aircraft we hit
start close the canopy and then the head
will automatically start to rotate and
put the camera in the correct position
does the full 36 shots or wherever its
program for bars off the camera so then
we can open up the canopy then pull our
equipment out and move on to another
aircraft so lots of different things
that we've had to do we'll talk about
that in my presentation but Terry wine
me to show another salut
Shin out there don't know how much it
would cost on the market you'd have to
talk to Luis I think he's into taking
your firstborn so or leaves pio the
right arm you know whichever is the
trigger finger so that's time for my
presentation well ok carrying great so
um yeah so we'll do some Q a few months
to come back up a half Flyers actually
for the manfrotto i forgot that what
they do actually is they supply you with
two sets of brackets so i had the wrong
bracket on there which is nice because
they'll do larger brackets for bigger
SLR cameras like this or they'll supply
smaller brackets if you're going to be
using you know like a consumer prosumer
type digital camera
you